---
title: "Browsers" # apperared on a card component
description: "Browsers, The Holy Portal to the Internet."
date: 2022-12-03
---
<h3 id="introduction">Introduction</h3>
<p align= "left" style="font-size:20px; padding: 10px;">Browsers, The Holy Portal to the Internet. Nowadays, People mostly use Laptops or PCs just to access the Internet via Web Browsers. Most  Machines are used to Browse or Edit Documents. Now, Browsers do Support a lot of Functionalities. So, they need to be Features Rich. As a result, they become Chunky. In this Blog, I won't be talking about  CLI(Command Line Interface) based Browsers. As, They are really complex to use, even for me. So, I prefer using GUI(Graphical User Interface) based Browsers. Most browsers today are based on Chromium, and only a few Gekko and Webkit-based Browsers exist.</p>
<center>
    <div id="all-browser-ww-monthly-202111-202211" width="90%" height="100%"></div><!-- You may change the values of width and height above to resize the chart --><p>Source: <a href="https://gs.statcounter.com/browser-market-share">StatCounter Global Stats - Browser Market Share</a></p><script type="text/javascript" src="https://www.statcounter.com/js/fusioncharts.js"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="https://gs.statcounter.com/chart.php?all-browser-ww-monthly-202111-202211&chartWidth=600"></script>
</center>
<h3 id="how_web_browsers_work">How Web Browsers Work ?</h3>
<p align= "left" style="font-size:20px; padding: 10px;">A browser is used to locate, retrieve and display content on the World Wide Web, including Web pages, images, video, and other files. The browser runs on the Client's Computer, Contacts the Web server, and requests information. The Web server sends the response back to the Web browser, Which displays the results on the computer or other Internet-enabled device that supports a browser. Now, The Browser and Server communicate with each other basically in HTML to reduce the strain of Downloading larger files. It's the Web Browser's Job to compile the Code and presents it to the Client in the form of Webpages. So, A browser needs to be Feature Rich and must support most Elements and Languages.</p   >
<h3 id="selection_basis">Selection Basis</h3>
<p align= "left" style="font-size:20px; padding: 10px;">What Browsers should you use then, In this list, I will be focusing on Free & Open Source, Privacy respecting browsers. Also, I will add a Minimalistic Browser for those Slow Ass PCs. Now, It is hard to make Import Settings from Browsers but, I will try to make detailed Instructions for Import Profiles. Now, As most browsers are Chromium-based you can easily import Settings once you set up a Chromium-based browser. But I suggest reviewing all Settings as different browsers provide different Functionalities and Features. You can just Google what a Function does and Configure your browser.</p>
<h3 id="google_chrome">Google Chrome</h3>
<p align= "left" style="font-size:20px; padding: 10px;">Now, I know you all absolutely love using Google Chrome. I Admit that Chrome is Optimized for most Hardware, and It has Improved itself over time. Also, Google Services works best in Chrome, and you get A variety of Services from Google. But it still Hogs up a lot of System Resources and is stuffed with Telemetry. So, I won't even consider using this Proprietary piece of Shit.</p>